We have discovered manuscripts that go back to the 2nd century.
And what's on the screen for you is a copy of a late 2nd century, early 3rd century copy of the Gospel of John.
It's called P66.
And that's because scholars are very imaginative, and it's made out of papyrus, so they said,
well, let's call it P.
And how many do we have before this? We have 65. P66.
It takes doctoral-level work to figure that kind of stuff out.
But what's really interesting about P66 is that if we're dealing with a book with a codex,
the front and back are very vulnerable to time, to wear and tear, to worms, to all sorts of things.
And so we don't actually have, we have a lot of middles of books,
but we don't have a lot of, if it's a single book, the beginning and end are always the most vulnerable.
P66 preserves for us the beginning of the Gospel of John.
And if you read with me along on the screen, it says,
or I'll make it easier for you.
We can go, you, sir.
You know, it's really interesting.
If you look at P66 and you translate through it, what it says is,
in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
He was in the beginning with God.
All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made.